Welcome back to the Ranking Heroes
podcast where we uncover the strategies
that drive ex exceptional business
growth. I'm your host and today I'm
excited to welcome Slava Ibalca, a
marketing executive who's been at the
forefront of digital transformation for
over two decades now. Slava has led
growth initiatives at major companies
like Chavy, Arteza, VSC aviation,
helping them scale revenue and optimize
their performance marketing efforts.
What sets him apart is his early
adoption of AI and machine learning back
in 2017. He completed a machine learning
program specifically to understand how
Google's rank brain was changing SEO
forever. Since then, he's building uh
he's been building Python-based
marketing tools, leveraging chat GPT and
different APIs for content operations
and developing automation systems that
give businesses a real competitive edge.
He combined strategic leadership um with
hands-on technical expertise using
everything from advanced analytics to AI
integration to drive measurable results
for businesses he worked with. Today we
are diving into how AI and machine
learning are reshaping digital
marketing, what it really takes to scale
performance marketing in today's
landscape and how data automatation can
transform your marketing operations.
Slava, welcome to our podcast. It's so
nice to have you here and I'm excited
for the discussion we are going to have.
So,
>> thank you Nibbush. Nice to nice to meet
you. Nice to meet everyone.
>> Thank you. So, first I would like uh if
you can do a short introduction, tell
something about yourself, something
about your uh early career and like how
you first got involved in SEO.
>> Yes, of course. So um initially I was a
teacher of English a long time ago in
Barus and um at some point I realized
that that's not the career that I want
to to to continue with and I decided to
switch to digital marketing or anything
basically related to the IT and um I had
some intent to to to learn programming
but it was not uh that that big. I more
I liked more to deal with people and um
I was looking for a profession on the
intersect of computers and um personal
relations and psychology and I figured
out that search engine optimization at
that point of time was the exact career
that was booming and it picked my
interest and I started learning as much
as I could about search engine
optimization. basically absorbing the
the data uh the the blogs the
information that I could find on the web
etc. So I switched to search engine
optimization and uh my first job on uh
uh on o odesk uh it's upwork now but
back then it was odesk
>> was to to build uh to build five
backlinks as far as I remember and the
person who hired me he offered $10 for
that job and back then I did not know
how to do backlinks but I read something
about it and I said yes I'm an SEO
specialist I can do that. I can help
you. And of course, we ended up being a
friends and he helped me with these
backlinks. He actually helped me how to
build these backlinks for himself. So,
um that's how I started and then um it's
been like I'm saying like 14 years ago
and since then I moved to the US, worked
at different companies, worked with
literally hundreds of businesses and
organizations and helped them with their
websites. Mhm. And what would you say uh
when you started, you just mentioned you
started reading blogs, articles uh like
compared to the current knowledge that
you can find on the internet, was it
harder to learn SEO back when you
started?
>> Yeah. So it was uh very something very
very new because you did not uh see lots
of information. You could not find lots
of information. For example, we did not
have websites like mos.com or search
engine journal or anything
>> at least maybe they existed at that time
but I started in Belarus in around 2010
and all I could see was related to
blogging, affiliate marketing basically
how you can rank affiliate websites. So
I started from that
>> and only when I moved to the US then I
uh learned about actually no I think I
learned about MOS before. So u I I
learned about Moz and search engine
journal some other websites about search
engine optimization later a little bit
later but initially it was just about
blogging.
>> Mhm. And like what attracted you to
specialize in SEO and link building and
things you you said you mentioned you
want to switch to the IT but still when
people are asked people let's say some
old grandma is asking you what you do I
know like because she doesn't understand
what SEO is and you will say uh
programming or it or something like that
but it's completely a different thing
some parts of SEO uh overlaps with it
like technical
implementations that you need to do
coding schemas, things like that. But
like was there a specific thing that
attracted you to to
specialize in SEO?
>> You know, the the the
term itself, it sounded cool at that
point of time and uh it was something
new, something that I had not heard
about before and it was a perfect match
for my aspirations at that time. I think
in some way it was um it was a pathway
for me to achieve um my personal goals
like become more successful in my career
path or something because
>> uh back then in Bellarus uh we did not
have um uh how to say that more
opportunities to you know to to progress
in career path. Mhm.
>> So search engine optimization it sounded
new at the same time and at the same
time it promised something bigger than
uh why I could achieve just doing my 9
to5 work there.
>> Mhm. And was the SEO popular in Belarus
said that I'm 2010 like
>> you you know what it no um I don't think
u more than 10 people knew about it or
more than 50 people in Bellaris knew
about it. I worked in I got my first job
there at an IT company and um I offered
my boss to conduct a course on personal
effectiveness uh for their executives.
So we had the one-hour session where I
told them about the things I learned at
business seminars and they in exchange
um offered me like my boss he in
exchange offered me to uh teach me some
search engine optimization and he
learned it he had learned it at a Yandex
conference that he attended in Moscow uh
maybe a year before that. So, and I
literally took um uh a few notes uh
based on what he was uh telling me about
some keywords placement and some link
building and I I took that and then I
built upon that by reading these blogs
and learning from the internet.
>> Yeah. And like how has your approach
evolved as you've worked with diverse
markets and industries especially when
you went to the US where you started
working with some US companies that are
like up to date with the trends and I
know that the west is going like in the
future like 10 years compared to us that
are in Europe.
>> Yeah and my approach has evolved
dramatically. Um so there were a few
pivotal points uh and I'm actually I
have a video on my channel where I'm
talking about the history of search
engine optimization.
>> So what happened is initially when as I
mentioned I learned about search engine
optimization as link building. So I I
thought that it's a synonym and um I
learned how to build these links, how to
place them on different websites like
educational websites or um how to how to
do the commenting and do all this gray
hat type of link building, right?
>> And uh I sold my services as as an SEO
person, but it's basically was link
building under the hood and some minor
optimization. And um then I moved to the
US and I got hired as an SEO manager at
a at a company in Los Angeles and I went
to my first SEO conference which was SMX
West uh in 2012 in San Francisco or San
Jose, I don't remember exactly. So when
I got there, I so I I thought I knew
search engine optimization and I got to
this conference and all of a sudden I
see lots of people who've been doing
search engine optimization for 10 years
as like since since 2000 2002 and
they're talking about a completely
different world. Uh it was a huge mind
shift for me in terms of my approach of
how how I do search engine optimization
for different websites. All of a sudden
I realized so the the content is
important, the structure is important,
>> all these elements they play an
important role like all these 200
factors or more it was a completely
different world.
>> And then moving forward in time uh again
like 2016 I believe uh when I learned
about rankbrain that was another uh
shift uh for me because I realized I
need to catch up. I need to understand
how neural nets work. So I signed up for
that course at Udacity and learned how
to build this machine learning
algorithms.
>> Oh, you like you you knew about the AI
before everything happened? You were
following the trends. Did you expect the
the boom in the AI when it happened like
nearly three years ago when Chad GPT um
announced and published the first model?
you know, I uh I did not expect that and
I think few people could expect that
because um
I don't I don't want to make
assumptions. uh so um actually you know
in 2016 then uh when there was an
article and they did the research and
they said that I believe 15% or so uh
search search queries are being
processed by neural net
>> um and Google was experimenting with
that I realized that I need to to
understand how it works
>> so um back then I signed up for another
course uh for an artificial intelligence
course uh that was served at EDX
and um during that course um I got a
book I got a book that sick on uh
artificial intelligence and I tried to
go through it but in that book you could
not find anything related to the AI we
knew right now. So in 20 um 20 or
whatever Chad GPT happened um everything
shifted again and now we use CH GPT to
just uh doing to do research about our
customer audience to get the insights to
translate those insights into the
keywords. Uh it's a completely different
type of AI now than the AI I imagined in
2016 when I signed up for that course.
>> Yeah. Yeah. You didn't think about okay
I'm going to be able to chat with it to
provide insights get insights back like
the whole the knowledge database is
really huge when you think about it like
it can scrape the entire internet and it
has everything. And what I know that the
the first AI was created by scanning the
books in the library and then they fed
the model with the knowledge from the
books and then the model knew every book
in the library and could answer any
related questions.
So yeah, that's very interesting. Uh
before we we discuss more about AI, I
want to ask you some traditional SEO
questions of course. So, uh, considering
you're working with an e-commerce right
now, correct?
>> Yes.
>> What would you say that an ecom needs
the most when it comes to SEO and online
marketing?
>> Yeah. So, uh, of course, I'm not calling
myself an expert in e-commerce. Uh I'm
I've been working in e-commerce for a
few years and uh definitely I picked up
some of the approaches related to
e-commerce that uh work that we use in
search engine optimization specifically
when I worked at Chewy and they had a
different approach from what I learned
before. So that was another shift for
me. Um so the the the difference is that
let's say if we compare an e-commerce
website to a regular website to to a
small business website for example on a
small business website they have
services let's say dentist or a spalon
they have services they're listed so
those are their hub pages
>> in e-commerce we have collections or
categories product categories so those
are the hub pages that accumulate the
majority of link equity or authority and
then underneath we have uh product pages
So this is I would say a standard
structure right. Whereas for the local
businesses uh we have um services and we
have uh pages um like blog pages or
guides supporting this um u
pages with with the links. So that's the
major difference in structure. Of course
with e-commerce websites we're talking
about lots of SKs. uh it can be 20,000
can be 100,000 SKs and technical SEO
becomes to play an import important role
because Google might not be able to
crawl a huge chunk of the website.
>> Um we deal with lots of faceted URLs
again depends on on the framework. Um
lots of websites are on Shopify right
now and Shopify did great job on um
optimizing their SEO. other they hire
some smart people to do that
>> and uh um so I'm pretty confident in
Shopify but still it also needs uh
sometimes it needs some finetuning as
well.
>> Yeah. Um so I mean it's it's different
these are two different things but uh in
terms of e-commerce um my approach
changed a little bit and uh I I started
thinking more about the structure
technical SEO and uh the the content and
the way the information is presented to
the consumer with the focus that if I'm
a customer I want to buy something if I
visit this this website I've already um
gave uh give um I I've already gave some
some of a portion of my time to this
website. So now I'm expecting this
website to understand my need
>> and give me the information right away.
Give me the the idea or or actually
answer my um my intent right away. So
that's the difference I would say
between e-commerce websites and uh some
other types of websites.
>> Yes, I understand. And uh one of my
previous guests, he mentioned how he
noticed for an e-commerce client,
they've been running ads for a specific
landing page and they were they they've
been doing Google ads specifically and
he noticed that even without the SEO
only by running a keyword campaign on
Google ads uh you'll get your organic
positions for these keywords also move
up. Uh do you did you ever see such
correlation between ads and organic?
>> Okay. So what I can tell regarding that
there might be some indirect influence
indirect correlation because of that uh
maybe because of um more awareness and
more more brand signals.
>> So indirectly that could could help.
Again that's my take. I'm not saying
that uh I'm an expert in everything
related to paid search and search engine
optimization. Uh I spoke uh with uh one
very famous person in SEO industry.
Everybody in SEO knows this person long
time ago and um uh again during one of
the conferences and uh he told me that
um they don't see any correlation
between paid ads and search engine
optimization. uh
>> it's a it's it's a different completely
different different traffic acquisition
channels. So whether there is direct
impact right now today uh from paid ads
on SEO or not not say that because I
don't have enough data to to prove that
>> and uh another question regarding the
ecom is something that I recently
noticed is that GPT launched a thing
where it requires a website owner like a
store owner to fill out some form so the
GPT can uh basically uh show the results
so that the users who are searching for
products using GPT uh can directly buy
from GPT. And I think this will really
change how things are working because
like before we were typing like uh shoes
running red for example and now you are
typing like this also from one of my
previous podcast where Sarah told like
now people want to search uh I live in
Colorado. I want to buy myself uh red
shoes. I want to go up in the hills.
this is the average price that I can uh
pay for these shoes and like these are
the questions that are really going
through uh to the LLM and not to Google
directly. So that's very interesting how
the search will evolve and I'm not sure
if you have like uh kids and that but
like I have a son he's only a year and a
half old and he I know that he will now
grow up next to the AI and probably
these youngsters when they grow up their
way of searching will be completely
different than our way of searching.
>> 100%.
>> Yeah.
>> Absolutely.
>> Yeah. So I mean it definitely definitely
the new generation the kids who grow
grow up now they grow up with AI because
Chad GPT it's it's the part of their
life now uh they do their their homework
with Chad GPT
>> and they use it uh
>> so uh in terms of product placement
within Chad GPT results uh you're
absolutely right so the the situation
has changed um because before uh when
Google just appeared um people typed
very simple keywords there like shoes or
running shoes, right? And Google tried
to do their best job to provide the the
optimal results for that searcher for
that person for that particular person
who is looking for that information. uh
and then uh there was a shift to a
longer keywords uh to to longer keywords
and we we thought about how we optimize
for this longer keywords and how we use
TF algorithm to identify the the
similarity or cosign similarity or and
then there were a few b businesses built
on that. Um I used the natural language
processing to extract the entities. Uh I
I was really excited about that for a
certain point for a few years regarding
uh analyzing the copy on the web page
and the anchor text and the incoming
keywords and to match all that using the
entities and biograms and triagrams from
NLTK. um to to to truly understand the
intent
um just even behind the traditional
distribution toformational
um transactional navigational types like
what's the true reason why people are
buying something.
>> Yeah. And um I worked at some company
and they utilized this approach when
somebody uh performed um a purchase.
they they made a purchase and on the
thank you page they did this popup which
said uh why did you buy from us
>> and some people filled that out and
based on their answers you could get
deeper into the their mindset
>> and then you could match that
information to the product that they
purchased and uh power your marketing
strategy going forward.
>> Yeah. form your messaging according to
the your audience feedback and this is
something that every business should do
like if you don't get the feedback from
your customers then you can't improve
your product
>> absolutely absolutely and going back to
chat GPT so regarding so we moved from
the simple keywords to large prompts
when person provides the contest uh the
context to chat GPT right or or to LLM
and uh what I think we should be doing
um the web masters and SEO people what
we we need to be doing now is to um use
maybe go back to this um entities um
algorithm or method methodology when we
uh process the information on the
website on our websites and extract this
entities and then we try to map the the
possible con context or possible prompts
to these um entities that we have on the
website. It's just an idea and I might
play with it for a while um to to test
it but uh this I think basically we need
to adopt now to to this angst.
>> I agree. I agree. and Slava tell me what
do you look for in a successful SEO
campaign like
>> well uh first of all um there should be
uh a strategy and um what I did over
years I came up with a checklist
um I I took I found an SEO checklist on
the web uh somebody created it and um I
adopted it to my needs I added some some
additional points and I modified it from
year to year. So right now I have it
modified for 2025
and uh the problem is especially
especially for me it has been that
whenever you start working with a
website lots of websites they every
website is different they have different
they at different stage of optimization.
Some of websites are not optimized some
of them some of them are very optimized
and uh they require different things to
be done. So this checklist it helps me
to make sure to that every point is
optimized and that's uh that's actually
built on Bruce Clay's approach uh
because uh he um he used to say that
>> uh we need to make sure that um we optim
that our website is better than our
competitor's websites. So every let's
say every point in our website should be
better than the same point in the
competitor's website. That's what I
learned from his master class in 2012.
And uh I'm using this checklist to make
sure that all the points are uh checked
and completed. So the page titles are in
place, the internal linking is in place,
everything is done properly.
>> So that's the classical uh SEO I would
say.
Now also we're talking about u the
importance of links whether they
important or not uh the optimization for
AI how to do that do we need to apply
this llms txt or not all these new
things they need to be added to this
checklist and the modern search engine
optimization it should be done um
considering all these new uh new tools
and new uh new changes.
>> Mhm. Okay. Okay. Thanks for sharing
that. Um, I also wanted to ask you
because like I know that at some point
when you're working on the website's
SEO, you just hit the wall and you just
want to find a way how to improve the
positions. And from my experience, this
is where the perfect timing for link
building campaign comes. So I want to
ask you like be because a lot of people
are saying links are not the the best
ranking signal. Some of them they say uh
links are the best uh and will always
remain as the strongest signals based on
what Nathan got for example uh was
saying in his videos. So I want to ask
you how important is link building.
You know what? Um my opinion is that
link building um lost its um um how do
you say that? Popularity or let let me
actually dial it back. So uh before we
were talking about 200 uh factors
>> that help a web page to rank and link
building was one of these factors that
was prior to this neural net ad
algorithms. M
>> um a neural network that's what Google
started using uh in 2016 or around 2016.
Uh it's a black box that has lots of
inputs and we're talking let's say about
this 200 plus inputs um that and back
links is one of them and u you put this
input you load this information into
this black box and you get uh the result
the position in search results. Mhm.
>> Uh that was the idea back then. And each
of these inputs, it has its own weight
from zero to one, let's say, and it can
change dynamically. So that complicates
things even more. So my assumption is
that let's say links were one of these
inputs or have been one of these inputs
and their weight was let's say one very
important. So they affected the ranking
very much. Mhm.
>> Now this weight has shifted and it's
probably not one but 0.1 or 0.2.
>> Mhm.
>> Again this is I'm not saying this is
true. I'm saying this is just my
understanding how this is happening. Of
course things have changed a lot.
Everything is much more complex than
that what I've just described. But I
think links are still important but they
should be relevant. they should um they
should not be appearing on the website
rapidly at the same time because that
could trigger some algorithms.
um they should be done from um uh using
there are different ways of doing that
like as I mentioned I started as a link
builder so I built all kind of backlinks
>> but now uh I'm telling my clients
>> uh if it's a small business I'm saying
you want to to do it strategically and
build let's say one link from your local
chamber of commerce from the city where
you operate
>> and that could be a good signal for you
if it's an e-commerce website I would
recommend and to buy a blog uh a
wellestablished blog on the same topic
that already has accumulated lots of
backlinks and uh go very meticulously
through these backlinks through this
content and then redirect the pages to
your blog on your domain.
>> That's smart.
>> There are different approaches
>> depending on the situation.
>> And tell me what tips would you give
companies looking to scale their SEO
efforts through strategic partnerships?
Well, um I read this book. It's called
uh competition um competition
>> and uh it's an old one but they uh talk
about the game theory and how company
could regard itself um in that scheme
where you have the competitors, you have
suppliers, you have clients and you have
complimenters. So um in that scheme you
can think about how you could utilize
your competitors or your indirect
competitors uh to become your partners.
You might be competing on one side but
you might be helping each other on on
the other side. And uh so I'm regarding
um through u I'm regarding partnership
through that lens since I read that book
and uh uh let's say if somebody is doing
paid search um I can speak with them and
ask them if they would be happy to to
provide my services to their clients and
vice versa if somebody needs paid search
I can recommend their services. Um, I
have a few friends who who specialize in
paid ads and whenever somebody asks me
about paid ads, I recommend their
services for example. So
>> there's always there are always
opportunities. It's it depends on how
you how you look at things.
>> Yeah. And they say don't uh they say uh
there is this sentence it says uh don't
wait for the perfect opportunity. You
take the moment and make the
opportunity. And I I think that's
something that we all need to do. But
some people uh can see it uh faster and
react faster and better. Some people
might not see it right away. But you
know, it's like that. So yeah, I want to
move and discuss more about the uh AI
influence in the SEO industry. So I'm
going to just follow uh form a follow-up
question based on what you previously
said that you built a checklist uh that
you updated to 2025. I suppose it has
some things related to the AI such as
LLM, TXT and things that you mentioned
and I want to ask you uh do you use uh
AI to help you uh with some of the uh
tasks that could be found on that
specific list that you currently have
>> kind of so um I'm experimenting with it
right now and now you know that there is
a boom in AI a agents um field. So
people are building this AI agents with
NAN and uh other tools.
>> So um I'm exploring the idea of
automating some of these um points in
this checklist using the using AI.
>> Of course I did that before using Python
but that was more around if else logic.
Now we have LLM. So you could just plug
LLM
>> it will do something. But I think I
firmly believe that there there should
be a system of checks that um that
serves as a filter for every LLM uh
input because you can't just plug in an
LLM and expect that it will get the job
done. I think it should be a synergy
>> between a person and uh an LLM. So for
to achieve the best results.
>> Mhm. And since you've been using Python
for a while, I'm familiar that for
example, clot code can build Python
scripts using an LLM uh and basically uh
it can follow your instructions, your
modification and it can run serious
Python scripts. Did you test it out?
>> No, I did not. You mean cloud from an
anistropic? Uh
>> yes, now you can integrate cloud in for
example, Visual Code Studio and then it
can code for you basically.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh no, so what I did,
I experimented with it and I asked
Claude to build me an app in React and
it did that pretty well. ChatGpt does
this. I think they can do that as well.
But I have not tried that functionality
yet in chat GPT. Um what I wanted to add
here uh in order not to forget so uh
with the introduction of CH GPT and LLM
uh I've been using it uh for for some
SEO tasks but those SEO tasks were were
related more towards understanding the
customers and um so I know some people
are using it uh they they use CH GPT to
find the keywords which I think it's not
correct because um they won't be able to
tell you the exact keywords. They will
be imagining things and just giving you
something some some assumptions and and
such. So what I did instead, I could for
example describe um the customer the the
customer persona based on a typical
persona that my clients have
>> and u I would ask Chad GPT to to to give
me to give me more insights ba based on
this uh description like this is my
ideal customer. Tell me five things that
I might not be thinking of that this
person uh cares about or
>> or they're interested about in relation
to
>> my client's business.
>> Yeah.
>> Maybe they have some hidden questions or
something we couldn't think of.
>> And uh I worked with um a pretty big
company. um they had their own uh VP of
content and uh Chad GPT just uh just
appeared. It was a couple of years ago
and with that company with with their VP
of content, we developed a very
elaborate method of how to understand uh
their customers and how to build their
con the content calendar for that
company
>> based on the intent based on the
questions that we might be asking or
they might be asking
>> etc.
And uh I used um to build that series of
prompts I used an approach um from some
of the greatest minds in information
retrieval.
>> Mhm.
>> And uh that's uh this is I think how you
could use chat GPT in a smart way.
>> That's very interesting. I mean uh it
seems like you you want you make him
understand the entire topic better. So
you give him the quality input and of
course you will get the better output
than just typing a short query prompt.
>> Yes. It's more like uh let's say
somebody uh some great mind they
introduce a concept related to
information retrieval or related to
uh how how how customers think or how
how we think or how we
>> something related to psychology. Let's
say it can be psy psychological concept
>> and you take that concept and you think
about it through the lens of marketing
and branding and customer acquisition
and then you create this prompt for Chad
GPT and tell CHP about the psychological
concept and the client's business and uh
basically you let the the you let Chad
GPT do the do the work that
>> oh that's that's very interesting. I
like it. I like the way of I mean I like
the entire approach that you have there.
And by the way uh for the keywords um
there are some APIs that you can connect
with chat GPT and they can help you get
the actual uh information the exact
keyword positions that are correct. Uh
there are ways now to do that and I've
been testing it out. I even built an app
that analyzes Google search AI overview
results and then takes all the feedback.
You just need to type the keyword of
course and then it gives you back the
feedback uh by analyzing all the AI
overview and Google search results um
how you need to structure your content
what you need to be to do in order to
rank in AI overview as well things like
that and even it can like create a new
page and this is something that uh I've
been working on for the last two months
because I find it very interesting how
you can now connect AI with real data
sources through various APIs, endpoints
and then you can do some very good
things and simplify some tasks.
>> Mhm.
>> How do you like the results? Sorry for
interrupting you. How do you like the
results?
>> Oh, I like the results. I really like
the results especially because uh it
generates the HTML that you can uh
basically preview in your browser, send
it to your content writer. So he can
update the content. Your designer, he
can do the design and you have a perfect
piece uh to publish.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, that sounds
>> Yeah, I'll I'll make sure to forward the
link after the call.
>> Yeah, that would be great. I'm going to
ask.
>> Yeah, no worries. Uh and uh since we are
discussing these trends like and
technologies, I want to ask you what SEO
trends or technologies excite you the
most right now.
Uh well, you know, uh for many years, uh
I've been following Gartner's uh hype
cycle chart. They they've been building
this great charts. And one of the things
that u attracted my attention has been
uh customer data platforms
>> uh CDPs um because um I think that it's
very important to understand
u the true need of a customer and um to
to do that uh you need to to be able to
get the the the information you need to
understand what they like um and uh what
what they do on the website and
basically just regular information that
uh that they provide. So once you have
that you can build on top of that. So
you could um you could use let's say
chat GPT to to analyze the data or uh
you can get some insights. And as I
mentioned in the example before, there
was this popup at the end of a of a
checkout process that that asked why did
you buy from us? Right now, you could
collect you could connect uh Chad GP to
that to those uh answers and you could
do that even better.
>> Mhm.
>> So that's that's uh something that I'm
excited.
>> Okay. Thanks. Thanks for uh for sharing
that. Uh also I have a a question about
the the content that performs well. So
what frameworks or tools do you
recommend for structuring content that
performs well? Uh let's say both in SEO
search engine result pages but in AI
overview results as well.
Uh could you please elaborate a little
bit more regarding uh frameworks like
frameworks like WordPress or frameworks
like uh method and elements and what
>> more like uh for example when I say
framework I mean like uh content
production workflow like uh we analyze
this and then we do that we send it to
our writers. That was I that was I
referring to.
>> Yeah. So um um back then again I think
2012 2014 um at one of the conferences
there was a presentation by Greg Jarbo
um regarding a content factory and I
liked it a lot. It was a series of
slides. I liked it a lot. Uh I asked him
to send me the presentation. I still
have it somewhere. Um and uh in that
presentation he described um the content
machine how it how it works from the
beginning till the very end. So uh it's
like a factory where everything goes on
a conveyor belt
>> and uh at each stage certain actions are
done to produce that content. So um I'm
very excited about this approach and I'm
explore I'm exploring the ways of
putting them into AI.
>> Yeah, nice. I mean uh I recently read
that Google announced that AI content
won't be penalized but like for example
if you misuse it and you start
publishing 50 articles a day of course
you will be penalized. they will know.
Uh to move more and discuss uh about the
different metrics in SEO, I want to ask
you which metrics do you find most
important uh when scaling SEO efforts?
>> Specifically regarding search engine
optimization, I'm looking at um the
number of keywords, the total number of
keywords uh a website is ranking for. Uh
there are lots of things in SEO that we
cannot influence, we cannot impact. But
uh
>> let's say as we add more content to the
website we were we have been
traditionally ranking for more keywords
now again like the situation changes
because people are getting those answers
from AI and uh we might not be able to
look at the same KPI uh like that again.
we might need to change the the to the
our approach to the KPIs. But
traditionally, I was I was looking at
the number of keywords. I was looking at
the uh sessions from active users um on
on the website. Um I was looking from
the technical SEO standpoint, of course,
I've been looking at the number of pages
indexed in Google.
um the qual you need to look at the
quality of those pages that are indexed
because don't want to have just anything
there. Yeah.
>> Um
>> yeah and purely from the SEO perspective
again you look not really a KPI but
internal links I think very important
and
>> if there is a way to measure the
uh the the equity that those internal
links pass I don't want to say page rank
but uh some metric that helps you
understand which which page on your
website at a given moment of time
is more has more weight. I think that
would be a great metric to have.
>> Yeah, nobody provided such a detailed
answer before and I 100% agree with all
the metrics that you just listed and I
wasn't thinking about some metrics in a
way you did but you just opened my eyes.
So, thank you Slava. And since you
worked with different teams, uh how do
you ensure for example let's say sales
and marketing they work together. How do
you ensure that both sales and marketing
teams stay aligned around data and
reporting?
>> Yes. I mean communication I think
communication is the key because uh you
need to um to it's better to
overcommunicate you know than to
undercommunicate. and uh uh training and
explaining things how how things work uh
what's important because for them
>> let's say for marketers it might be the
quantity of leads for sales it might be
the quality of leads
>> so um understanding how things work um
going back to the topic of AI uh a few
years ago um just when I finished my
Udacity education uh one of the things I
built using machine learning was an
algorithm that scored uh the the leads
uh to uh to to to to understand the
quality of each lead. So for example, we
had the call center at the organization
I worked at and I built this machine
learning algorithm that took all the
leads that were incoming and uh analyzed
them and assigned the score
>> based on the metric based on the
training data that I had and I saw that
let's say certain leads that had certain
parameters let's say certain people from
certain states or um they visited the
number of pages on the website they
ended up um making a purchase, right?
And I used that as a training set. So my
algorithm could tell that if a lead
comes from a certain state and they have
certain parameters, there is let's say
85 probability that this
>> they will convert. So and I prioritize
those leads up in the queue and that
that's something that you could build
without CHP. that's uh pure machine and
uh that's actually part of AI as well.
>> That's that's so smart. Actually uh last
year when I was uh developing a sales
team inhouse uh I I I told my growth
marketer to help me build a system like
that worked uh via app script uh through
boost sheets and when we have a lead
lead list that we want to reach out to
uh have each one of them gets their um
qualified score rating and then based on
that we prioritize the list that but
what you created is on a high much
higher level because they are coming to
you uh and you're qualified them. Uh
it's completely opposite here because we
are reaching out to them. But yeah, I
get it and I I'm I'm familiar that you
don't need uh AI, you can build it via
scripts and if you have a like a
qualified matrix that you preview
>> more more importantly is that now you
could use AI to build AI like you could
go to and say build first of all you
could say okay I'm a complete newbie in
machine learning um teach me machine
learning in in 30 minutes I've got 30
give me the most important concepts and
explain like I'm five what it is and
this is my situation let's say I want to
increase the sales uh on my business I'm
doing this I'm selling tires for example
right so you give all this context and
chat GPT tells you what is machine
learning how you could apply it uh to
your business your specific business uh
what algorithms would be the most
helpful and then as the next prompt you
could say okay now build me this machine
learning algorithm that you recommend,
you just recommend it. That should
increase my sales. And again, I I'm
completely newbie in Python. I don't
understand machine learning or any
machine learning algorithms. Just build
me this this app and it will create you
an app with this machine learning
algorithm under the hood that you could
use. You could just plug and play it.
And I think that's that's where
>> I agree. I agree. Uh okay. And I I do
have a few more questions before we wrap
it up. So this is the question that I
ask almost uh every guest uh and that's
what is a marketing meat uh or
misconception you often encounter.
>> That's a good one. Um
well it depends. Uh actually I have
another video uh that I recently uh shot
regarding the mistakes that like typical
mistakes that companies make uh or
website owners make when they build a
website or they they have new website
and things they do. Uh one misconception
is that again they they they think about
backlinks as search engine optimization.
So they want to get the results fast and
instead of let's say buying ads they go
and buy SEO services which is
essentially a link link building
services but those link building
services they are done not by a
legitimate company not by by the company
who understands how to do link building
but by someone from fiber and u that
actually worsens the reputation of their
brand and ruins their the credibility.
And another thing that's related to that
is that my approach has always been that
you want to regard your website not just
a website but as an asset and as a
brand. So you want to treat it uh very w
with all the attention that you you you
have and you don't want just to order $5
link building package from Fiverr
>> for your brand that you want to cherish
and build and treat it as an asset.
>> Yeah. I agree. I agree. Definitely. Many
sadly, many businesses they went and
bought uh like 200 back links for $200
from Fiverr and they got a bunch of
chunk uh and uh it just ruined their
rankings, hurts their organic keywords
because it that specific keyword just
>> went over optimized, you know, it fell
down with its rankings, things like that
happened. And you should really be
careful uh when you're doing backlinks.
You need to work with a company who
really has experience in it. Yeah.
>> Another thing there is one more thing
that I wanted to mention. Uh another
thing that I'm noticing is that um lots
of companies they have uh SEO done for
them. But when I'm checking this
websites, I'm seeing the approach that
was popular a few years ago. let's say
overation
and lots of internal links uh that
should not be there because Google has
become smarter and it's not like you
just plug in all these links everywhere
and it will work for you.
>> So that's another thing
>> and I know that uh with every new core
update their website is just going down
and down and down until it completely
disappears. I've seen it like for for
companies that didn't change or update
their website anything except publishing
new content like in forms of blogs uh
every new update just hurt their
rankings and I agree
>> and tell me about like because the AI
things that's happening how do you see
the role of marketers changing as
automatation and I AI become more
commonplace place.
>> Yes. Uh so again that's that's another
thing. So um we uh as marketers they
need to learn they need to keep learning
every single day. Especially right now
when the rate of change has increased
our rate of learning should should
increase as well.
>> It's it should be a constant learning
process and um this as I mentioned
before this there should be synergy. We
should learn how to create the synergy
because be between us as marketers and
all these tools. Same thing as we
learned to use scrape box or how we
learn to use frog SEO spider.
>> LLMs is a new tool and we need to learn
how to use it. Mhm.
>> And again the the concept of how we
understand marketing, how we approach
marketing now because our consumers the
consumers they they also change because
now people start using AI. So we need to
uh to understand what we should change
in our approach to treat them better and
serve them better with with what they're
looking for. Yeah, I understand and uh
you already elaborated on that and
touched that point when you were
speaking about how are you prompting to
chat GPT without your knowledge and
without your experience you wouldn't
know what to ask what specific questions
and prompts. So I agree about that. So
you should still learn more and stay
updated because that will enable you to
use that AI tool even better.
you know, I think it's it's an untapped
opportunity
>> to look into this concepts and that's
something that I mentioned earlier. Uh
if you take some methodology, some
specific methodology in from from
psychology or from uh marketing and
apply it within a prompt and apply it
using uh an LLM, you could get some
really fantastic and unexpected results.
very specific to your uh situation and
as I mentioned earlier all websites are
different when you do search engine
search engine optimization for them. So
for every website you could create this
custom solution using this unique method
maybe a longforgotten method
>> and just enhancing it with AI.
>> Mhm. And do you have any bold
predictions about the future of SEO and
digital marketing?
It's hard to make, you know, it's hard
to make any predictions, especially at
this rate of change. Um because I'm
calling everyone I speak with, I'm
telling it's a wild west right now
because uh people build these tools,
they that create tons of content, tons
of links, and then the websites go up
and down, the search results go up and
down. So um I think that we are in the
middle of a very um unexpected situation
where things are changing very rapidly.
It's very hard to keep up with what
everything what's going on right now
because you can think about let's say uh
different technologies that we we
thought would be popular but they're not
they just gone like uh flash micromedia
flash technology that people were using
long time ago to build websites nobody's
using it right now
>> another thing I learned about yesterday
I think somebody mentioned AngularJS
>> again I'm not an expert in programming
but uh people in the comment section
they discussed that it was uh booming
for some time now I don't think that uh
>> it's it's very popular
>> so I think what we need to do is to
focus on the fundamentals on the on the
core principles on understanding the
customer psychology and everything else
is just the tools that surrounds the
core principles and core foundation you
you never go wrong with learning uh with
becoming better at uh at the foundations
>> and the fundamental principles of
marketing and uh marketing and customer
psychology.
>> Yeah, I get it. I get there are these
fundamentals that everybody should know
about who wants to specialize in the
marketing and want to purchase that
career. And uh I have two more questions
for you. uh first would be what skills
or let's say more importantly mindsets
are most critical for success in your
area of expertise.
>> Yeah. So I think it's um there are a few
things. So uh first of all willing
willingness to learn uh being open and
being humble and being open to learning
new things. Sometimes uh you talk to
someone and they tell you something that
you know already. You already know that
but um it's interesting to to hear their
perspective and they might say something
that they might put it at a different
angle from what you used to to to learn
it from or or what you used to
understand it. Um so it's important to
be open to um to have an open mind to
all these new technologies and um things
that are incoming and uh
just uh you know learn as much as you
can. I'm learning every day from my
LinkedIn feed uh from this uh Gartner
hype cycle uh whenever they publish it.
In fact there is there is this funny
thing. So what you can do you can go to
chat GPT and say you know what um I like
uh Gartner hype cycle uh for marketers
so much and but they publish it once a
year. Um can you and now let's say
today's let's say it's it's February uh
could you build me a similar type of a
hype cycle chart based on the recent
information in my area in my field
>> and build you very similar chart with
the up-to-date technology so you can be
always up to date with the similar type
of uh a chart or
>> um visual representation
>> you don't have to wait for a year you
can build
using AI. That's crazy. That's crazy.
And yeah, my my final question I guess
is another question, the second question
that I ask um every guest and that's uh
what is the one piece of advice you
would give to anyone who's chasing their
market marketing career or just starting
with it?
>> Yes. So
again it again it it goes back to what I
mentioned that times are changing very
fast. Um I would recommend to get a few
uh books a few fundamental books on
marketing. Again you could use chat GPT
to ask here is my situation. I'm just
starting in marketing. What are the top
three books that with spend time that no
matter what happens these books will be
popular will will always be popular
to to get me to to to to learn the
basics right it will give you these
books buy these books from Amazon or go
to the library get them and read them
read these books so now you'll get this
fundamentals and then just listen to the
news uh try different method methods,
see what's working, see what's not
working. Because I tried lots of things
on my blog 10, 10, 12, 14 years ago. I
had my own website that I experimented
with and um it successfully got deranked
by Google Panda algorithm. So, I learned
from that experience. So, don't be
afraid to to learn and practice uh
practice different things, try different
things in marketing to learn more.
>> Yeah, I agree with you. uh especially on
uh having a website where you can test
the different strategies and see what
works and what it doesn't and uh this is
very important like to to do it by with
your hands and to really test it in a
live example. Slava this conversation
has been packed with a lot of actionable
insights about AI and datadriven
marketing strategy. So for listeners who
want to connect with you or learn more
about your marketing approach, where's
the best place to reach you?
>> Yeah. So um on YouTube I have my
channel. It's called Slavry Balka and um
I'm on Instagram as Slav Balkan as well.
So
>> okay, thanks for sharing that. And to
our ranking heroes community, thank you
for joining us for another deep dive
into what it takes to achieve
exceptional growth. This time with
Slava. If today's discussion about AI
marketing we had inspired some new ideas
for your business, hit that subscribe
button so you never miss an episode.
We'll be back soon with more
conversation that will help you climb
the top of your industry. Until then,
keep pushing the boundaries of what's
possible.
Thanks.
>> Thank you. Thank you for having me.